>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Back in the 1980s,
the world was shocked
by the emergence
of a little known and
fatal disease called Ebola.
We read stories of people
bleeding from the inside
out and dying within a
week of the first symptom.
After taking the lives of more
than 7,000 people globally
recently, Ebola is said to be
on the forefront of threats
to our public well being.
What's the current status
as far as the spread
of Ebola geographically?
We're going to
talk to my trusted
friend and medical expert
Doc Hutton, Dr. James Hutton,
and we're going to
look at this phenomena
from a number of
different levels.
And first of all, you
live in Sedona as I do,
and when anyone in Sedona
has an issue that's complex,
everybody knows you
go to Doc Hutton.
So I want to first just get
down to one little thing
that people don't understand,
and that is you're
a naturopathic doctor.
So people don't understand
what naturopaths are.
They think they're an
herbologist or something.
Tell us a little bit
about what it requires
to become a naturopath and why
you did that, and then we're
going to get off you and go
into the subject of Ebola.
>>DR. JAMES HUTTON:
Thank you, Regina.
Naturopathic medicine or
naturopathic physician
actually is the way medicine
was practiced in America prior
to the use and advent of
pharmaceuticals or chemicals
and the synthesis
of these chemicals
from active plant ingredients
and plant constituents.
Naturopathic medicine
as a physician,
we're trained in the
use of air, light,
water, as in hydrotherapy,
constitutional hydrotherapy,
hot and cold, nutrition, of
course, and you said herbs.
We refer to them as botanicals
because botanical medicine,
I think, currently to
this time, about 70%
of the people in the earth
still use botanicals or herbs
as medicinals-- traditional
Chinese medicine,
many cultures.
>>REGINA: But you still have
to go to medical school.
>>HUTTON: Yes, that's the
other side of the coin.
Many people think that
we're either self-taught
or, I don't know,
hocus-pocus taught,
whatever, but it's a four year
in-residence medical school
that is comparable to any
of the schools in America
as far as your basic
training-- anatomy,
physiology,
biochemistry, pathology.
But it does change when we come
to therapeutics or treatment
modalities, and I would
like to interject here
that we're taught--
I use the phrase--
"both ways of medicine."
We're taught what is done
for a particular disease
entity in the conventional
allopathic system, MD system,
as well as what we would do
for it either botanically,
homeopathically.
>>REGINA: So you have the
entire toolbox at your disposal.
>>HUTTON: Yes,
and in many states
we're licensed to use
pharmaceuticals, antibiotics,
et cetera, if one chooses to.
We're going to
get into what I've
done with my own
personal career,
and I found other therapies
that antibiotics are not
exactly needed.
>>REGINA: Why did you, when you
were in residency and all that,
what did you choose
to go this direction?
>>HUTTON: That's a
very good question.
It was a soul
searching, if you will.
I felt that I could
help more people
being a naturopathic physician.
My first love was in the
conventional hospital setting,
the surgery.
I spent about 15 to 20 years
in the conventional hospital
setting not as a
doctor, but as a tech,
and I really like surgery.
The human body, to
me, is a work of art,
and internally it's beautiful.
It's miraculous.
It may seem odd to some
people saying that,
but it is and my viewpoint.
But I just felt I could
help a lot more people.
Because I would have done
reconstructive plastic surgery,
but I'm happy I've
done what I've done.
I've been able to help
people that they would not
have gotten help otherwise.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
I mean, that's
why I say in town,
because in Sedona
a lot of people
eschew allopathic
medicine in general,
and so they're looking for
something that can actually
work, and so that's how they
end of at Doc Hutton's front
door, so to speak.
So now let's go into the
whole notion of Ebola,
and I wanted to
talk to you about it
because a lot of people
watching right now also
would prefer to find a way to
boost their own immune system
naturally down the road, besides
being enlightened on what this
is, how it came about, all the
different therapies that can
counter it, not necessarily
going the allopathic route,
and also not leaving
themselves vulnerable to this.
So first of all, right
now you said, jeez,
when I wrote this script
a couple weeks ago
it was over 5,000.
Now it's over 7,000.
What is happening
geographically?
Where is it spreading
at this point?
>>HUTTON: I check the
CDC website frequently.
That's the best barometer,
I guess we can say we have,
and it appears it still seems
to be pretty much isolated
to Africa-- Sierra Leone,
Mali, and the areas right
around in that region.
As we do know, there
are a couple cases
that have to America.
I think currently last statistic
I saw we've had four cases.
I want to say, I think,
three deaths, at that point.
But it does have the
potential, if it were to--
I'll back up and
couch it in this way;
the movie "Outbreak," an
old movie, I think back
from the '80s or so, maybe early
'90s, it was very much similar,
and it showed what could happen.
Not that I want people to
become frightened and get
scared about this, but
the potential is there.
It seems at this point it is
being contained in Africa,
and that will lead us into
what the CDC is doing.
>>REGINA: Well, and that's
kind of where I wanted to go.
So I mean there have been
some complaints about the CDC
across the board.
A lot of complaints about the
CDC and the way they've handled
or not handled things.
On one hand, creating a bit
of a scare, on another hand,
totally downplaying.
And some would say it goes
even further than that.
So what is the CDCs role
technically, and what
have they actually been doing?
>>HUTTON: OK, the CDCs
role, as you all may know,
is to-- when they hear of these
events around the world that
could potentially be
threatening to all of us,
isolate it, go in,
find out what is.
In this case they
know it's Ebola virus.
The primary things that
they're recommending to be done
is-- the first is
classic isolation.
It appears from
historical documentation
that the only way Ebola has
been stopped, if you will,
is by quarantining,
isolation-- isolating
the patients, the communities,
the villages in this case,
so that it can't spread.
And primarily, CDC is
just saying basic hygiene.
I mean, what we've
known since, I guess,
Joseph Lister-- wash your hands.
Wear a mask.
Don't touch items that
the person has handled.
They say that you can touch a
few things, in the sense, maybe
a cup, handing it to a person.
But they're saying
that it's not airborne,
that it's only
blood, body fluids,
et cetera, like drinking after
someone, caring for someone.
>>REGINA: But what if
someone were sneezing?
Because that is still
particulate of droplets.
>>HUTTON: The droplets-- and I'm
going to go back to the movie
"Outbreak."
It's got the single
best example.
Part of my training was
in respiratory therapy,
and once you have respiratory
therapy, microbiology,
and a few things--
when someone sneezes,
you're very uncomfortable
because aside
from what can be inside of our
lungs, in the case of Ebola,
it's what we breathe in.
We have these bacteria and
then things in our nose,
and it comes right back out.
But in the case of the
sneeze, if your close enough
in proximity, and CDC
recommends being greater
than three feet
away from someone,
but if you're within
that three foot range,
and they were to
sneeze, and you were
in the middle of an inhalation
and couldn't stop it,
which most people aren't even
that conscious of what they're
doing in that moment,
yes, you could inhale it.
CDC is saying that
it is not airborne.
We'll leave it at,
at this moment.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I know, I've
read varying reports on that.
>>HUTTON: If it matters,
personal opinion, and it
is personal opinion based
upon, I guess you could say,
my experience as a physician
or being in the world,
I'm not so convinced,
let's just say it that way,
that it's not airborne or
the potential to be airborne.
It's an upper
respiratory infection.
That's one way it's being
looked at as well-- severe,
but respiratory, and we
all know that's airborne.
I mean, the flu, et
cetera, all these things
are airborne that we know of.
They're trying
to-- well, they're
saying Ebola primarily-- direct
contact is what's being stated.
The health care workers
that have come back ill,
we haven't had any
details on them.
It would be interesting if we
could get firsthand accounts
from them-- what they were
doing, where they were,
and what they did.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about what Ebola
is, because I mean I right
after this new outbreak of it,
recent outbreak of it, I started
poking around on the internet,
of course, and one
of the things that
kept popping up in a lot
of articles coming through,
a lot of alternative
health sites
was this was essentially a
very rabid kind of scurvy,
so to speak.
Now, first, what is scurvy?
And they were saying
that because it
seems that vitamin
C has-- there's
some defense with vitamin
C. So launch into this.
>>HUTTON: OK, well,
the scurvy aspect, I've
looked at that a little bit,
and I can't say I totally agree.
But it's only because
of the other information
I've come across.
But the logic of the vitamin
C from what I can understand,
or I could say, the vitamin
C aspect I could see,
pun intended, that
vitamin C in the body
does number of things-- boosting
immune system, the integrity
of the tissue, if you will.
And the reason I look
that being important
is that the mucous
membranes is where you're
going to get Ebola contact.
Mucous membrane being
friable or damaged,
you're going to be more
susceptible to any kind
of an infection
as well as Ebola.
The vitamin C in
high enough doses,
and this is one
aspect that I haven't
seen discussed in literature,
maybe it is there,
but when we think
of Ebola, at least
from a practitioner's
viewpoint, and using vitamin C
I think of intravenous
vitamin C, into the vein.
>>REGINA: And that's
what I had read.
You can't really ingest
enough to make it work
in something as severe as this.
>>HUTTON: Right,
I agree with you.
Back to Linus
Pauling, for example,
as far as oral vitamin C, Dr.
Pauling recommended, say, 10-
to 15-, 20,000 grams
of vitamin C orally.
Most people cannot take
that much because it upsets
the digestive tract.
We'll leave it at that.
The standard rule of thumb
that I've used in practice
is 1,000 milligrams
of vitamin C per hour
during your waking
hours up to the point
of getting loose stool
or irritation for bowel,
and, at that point, you
subtract 1,000 milligrams,
and that's the dose
your body can absorb.
>>REGINA: And
everyone's different.
>>HUTTON: Everyone is different.
I've known a few
people, they can
take a teaspoon of four, five
grams of vitamin C powder,
dump it in a glass,
and drink it.
I can't do that.
Most people can't do that.
With respect to doing
it intravenously
in an IV situation
an IV bag solution,
I would look at probably
using a minimum of 50 grams
maybe, 25 to 50, minimum of 50.
I know some practitioners
have gone up
to 100 grams of
vitamin C. I'm not
saying it's a bad thing to do.
I can see how it can
have potential to work.
The way I look at
it, though, is you're
having to drip this in
over a number of hours.
You can't run this in rapidly.
It can be damaging to the body.
>>REGINA: And what
kind of effectiveness
does it have intravenously
over running it
through the digestive system?
>>HUTTON: Running
it intravenously,
the body's able to get a
high enough concentration.
The biochemical
literature on vitamin C
states that the
vitamin C pushes the,
I'll say, the immune
system into more
of an oxidative metabolic
pathway, so to speak,
or oxidation within
the white blood cells.
Oxidation meaning making
peroxides and superoxides which
is--
>>REGINA: Normally that
wouldn't be a good thing
in everyday life, right?
That's not something you want to
experience day in and day out,
unless you're in
a situation that
needs response of some kind?
>>HUTTON: The high
dose vitamin C?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>HUTTON: No, you wouldn't want
have such high doses, correct.
The peroxide and
superoxide just to clarify,
within the white
blood cell, that
is the normal way a white
blood cell-- we're all taught,
I think, in science
or some classes
that a white blood
cell or a macrophage
engulfs an organism
or a bacterium.
And how does that
macrophage destroy it?
It destroys it with peroxides,
superoxides-- superoxides
are just very strong peroxides--
and hydrochloric acid.
And so the vitamin C enhances
that peroxidic reaction
within the white blood cell.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
OK, I have a question
a little off topic,
but there been times when I
used to run a lot, for example.
There were certain days when I
would be running and sweating
that I felt like there was a
kind of a peroxide coming off
of my skin.
What's happening when
we experience that?
>>HUTTON: There, I
think your body--
in running we do go
into aerobic metabolism.
Initially, when we
start out running--
I've had a number
of runner friends.
People will go,
well, the second--
they call it "second wind."
We used to always
call it second wind.
And what I've come
to believe or see
from biochemistry and physiology
is that what it actually
is that we've warmed up the
biochemistry, if you will,
in the body that our initial
running is more anaerobic type
metabolism, like a sprinter's
metabolism, if you will.
Running distance, you're
in aerobic or oxidative
metabolism, more like a
dancer, and i.e. you're
the long distance runner.
And so that coming off the skin?
Good question.
>>REGINA: Would that mean that
something good's happening
in the immune system or bad?
>>HUTTON: Well, I'm an ex-runner
at this point, we'll say.
I had a few injuries,
slowed me down a bit.
But I'm with you
in that respect.
I think that-- because
you have endorphins
and a number of things
created, plus you're
in oxidative metabolism,
your immune system will be
working at a much better rate.
I won't necessarily
say a higher rate.
Because sometimes when you
say, oh, immune system's
at a high rate, people tend
to misjudge that or view
that as being, oh, I'm going
toward autoimmune disease.
And I'm not referring
to that at all,
just a high functioning
immune system.
>>REGINA: OK, so now
let's go back to Ebola.
What is Ebola then?
We've already ruled out
it's not exactly scurvy,
even though it could be enhanced
by intravenous vitamin C.
>>HUTTON: Correct,
and later on we
will discuss other therapies
for this situation.
>>REGINA: Yes, we will.
>>HUTTON: Ebola is one of
the hemorrhagic fevers,
if you will.
At this point, there are five
different Ebola viruses, if you
will, or family genus of Ebola.
The family is Filoviridae.
The particular genus
is just Ebola virus.
But the five that
are currently known,
and interestingly
enough, they're
named after areas of where
they were found, Zaire,
one, the Congo, as well as
the Sudan, the Tai Forest
and this other one is a
difficult to pronounce one.
I'll try to do my best at it.
It's Bundibugyo,
and I don't know
where that is, but
it's in Africa as well,
and then Reston.
These are all Ebola viruses.
It's the five of that
particular family.
And the Reston
virus or Ebola virus
does not affect human primates
or humans and primates.
Basically, Ebola,
at this point, there
is no known reservoir, if you
will, that seems to be known.
They're saying maybe bats
are the primary resident.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I read that.
>>HUTTON: The fact they can't
quite find a single host--
>>REGINA: --kind of natural
breeding ground of it.
>>HUTTON: Right, it just
doesn't seem to exist.
But, at this point,
that is what we know in
that it's called as Ebola.
It's just these five different
viruses of the family.
>>REGINA: OK, and there's
more to that thought.
I've been reading
sites, and I know
you have a lot more at
your fingertips than I do,
that this is a, not necessarily
even a mutation-- natural
mutation?
>>HUTTON: Correct.
>>REGINA: OK, let's
talk about it.
>>HUTTON: OK, the other
thing with Ebola--
the fact that it has no
natural host or reservoir
at this point that's been found
does lead one to suspicion
because it appears,
at least I'll
just say in medical history,
that we pretty much always find
a host of some sort for things
like this over the years.
It just has come up.
I mean even, I'll just
say, with HIV, for example
the simian immunodeficiency
virus in the green monkey,
seems to be some
connection there.
We'll get to that maybe later.
But it does seem to have hosts.
>>REGINA: It did have an
origin, is the point, yes.
What happened after that
is a separate story.
But you're saying there isn't
even a "green monkey" here.
>>HUTTON: No, that's correct.
What we seem to have
here, if it's OK,
I'll go in-- there's two other
viruses that are-- well, Ebola,
you ask what it is?
It's a hemorrhagic virus.
I think I mentioned that.
We have two others.
The Lassa Fever virus, which
these are all in Africa.
Well, I say all-- the one, the
last one I'm going to mention
is out of Germany--
another story too.
But Lassa Fever affects about
500,000 people in Africa.
It's got about a
20% mortality rate,
and it didn't really come in
to notice until about 1969.
There were two missionary
nurses who died from it.
That one was airborne, but what
was interesting about it is,
they found that it seemed
to have connection between--
and I don't mean to sound
too crude with this,
but-- rat urine
and feces is where
it was a host, if you will.
So that was a bit interesting in
the fact that it was airborne.
It's also hemorrhagic.
The other is the Marburg virus.
Now--
>>REGINA: This is the
one out of Germany?
>>HUTTON: Out of Germany, yes.
>>REGINA: That doesn't seem like
a place that would be hosting
these--
>>HUTTON: I would have to
agree with you on that,
and just the facts
of it would lend one
to come to that
logical conclusion.
After a little bit of "Star
Trek," if we all think
like Spock, logic dictates.
The Marburg virus
was in 1967, and it
was an outbreak in the
laboratories in Marburg,
Germany and Frankfurt, Germany.
And they thought-- they thought,
keyword "thought," not know,
no fact-- that this came
from some monkeys that
had been shipped to the
laboratories from Uganda.
The literature I came
across couldn't verify that,
but it was referenced,
and this is known.
It's internationally known
that that's where it came from.
But the odd part about it is
that there wasn't much known
after that.
You didn't hear anything
about it until 1974,
and I haven't really
followed it because I
was looking for the Ebola
and whatever things.
But then you come to
Ebola, and you're asking,
is it a mutation?
The fact that Ebola,
as we know it,
did not seem to exist
in medical literature
or historical documentation
in Africa until about 1976.
Now what I'm about to say seems
a bit coincidental, we'll say.
>>REGINA: Well, our audience
is very comfortable with
coincidences and subtleties,
nuances of all kinds when it
comes to this, so...
>>HUTTON: OK, well, basically
what happens is this; in 1976,
in a little place called
Kenema-- K-E-N-E-M-A,
Sierra Leone, Africa,
the US military built,
the army built-- the United
States Army's Medical Research
Institute for Infectious
Diseases in Kenema.
It was after that that Ebola,
as we know it, seemed to pop out
and began affecting people.
>>REGINA: Was this in Sierra
Leone, the first instances?
>>HUTTON: It was in
Sierra Leone-- of Ebola
as we know it, yes.
Now many people are
going to ask why
would the US military--
what, what, what?
Well, without going into
great philosophical discussion
on military mentality
or warring mentality,
the US military wanted
a biological weapon
that would basically
bring about death
and destruction of an enemy.
>>REGINA: Efficiently
and quickly.
>>HUTTON: Extremely
efficiently and quickly, yes.
I mean, when you're looking
at the incubation time,
maximum 21 days,
although we're being
told it's between 2
and 10 and 8 to 10 days
of symptoms appearing
in incubation,
so that's fairly quickly.
>>REGINA: I want to
go back to this thing,
this military facility,
research facility,
because that is coincidental.
The first instances break
out once they're already
beginning to look at,
engineer, work with something
at that facility, and
they're in the market
for biological weapons, so
that's very interesting.
Let's just for a moment
to talk about what
happens once a person
contracts Ebola, how it works
in the body, what
starts breaking down
that it happens so quickly.
HUTTON: The first symptoms
that we seem to see
are high fever, severe headache,
fatigue, severe weakness,
many times-- nausea, vomiting,
abdominal pain, stomach pain.
Now, if folks that
are listening,
those things I've
just stated sound--
REGINA: --like the flu.
HUTTON: --the flu,
exactly, every day.
The only difference
that comes in here
is abnormal bleeding
or something odd.
Someone having the
flu and bleeding
would be odd to any of us.
But once the progression
goes beyond--
REGINA: Where do they
start bleeding from?
How does the bleeding show?
HUTTON: Upper respiratory,
eyes, ears can be,
but mostly, it's upper
respiratory because it
effects the lung tissue.
REGINA: So they're coughing,
and there's a lot of blood.
HUTTON: Mm-hmm.
REGINA: OK.
HUTTON: Most people,
interestingly enough,
from what I've read
and have come across,
don't die from
the bleeding, even
though we think it would be.
It's mostly from
dehydration because of the,
I guess, vomiting, diarrhea.
You lose all your electrolytes.
So you're asking earlier about
CDC-- one of the things they're
doing in the places in Africa
is oral electrolyte replacement
or drinking fluids that have
electrolytes, and it's OK.
It's acceptable.
The World Health
Organization many years ago
put together a formula.
I mean, if it's acceptable using
a trade name that we all know,
Gatorade, which is for
electrolyte replacement--
not quite sufficient, I
don't think in volume.
REGINA: Very low dosage, yeah.
HUTTON: Very low-- but the
World Health Organization
put out a formula some years
ago that is just very simple--
a little bit of baking
soda, a little bit
of what's called new salt or
the potassium chloride salt,
and obviously sea
salt or regular salt,
and water, and a little bit
of some type of sweetener.
REGINA: Potassium, sodium,
and some kind of glucose--
HUTTON: The electrolytes.
REGINA: Right.
HUTTON: And just for the
audience that would know,
is that the reason
you have to put sugar,
or you want to put glucose,
is that the way our body works
physiologically,
biochemically is that we all
know insulin is
important for our health
and our well being and living.
And what happens
is insulin attaches
to a glucose molecule,
which in turn attaches
to anything and everything else
that needs to go into the cell.
The insulin's the key that
takes it into the cell.
That's why you need
to have glucose.
REGINA: So it has to
bond with glucose.
HUTTON: Correct, and actually to
rehydrate someone more rapidly,
giving them a sweetener, a
sugar-- it has to be sugar.
It cannot be like any of
the Stevia, Sweet'n Low,
any of that.
REGINA: It has to be real sugar.
HUTTON: It has to be real
glucose, real sugar, yes.
REGINA: OK, so then,
this is leading
me to ask the question, the
30% that supposedly survive--
I mean, last I read it
was a 70% fatality rate.
Is the 30% percent due to
the fact that they didn't
dehydrate more or less than?
HUTTON: That's something
that doesn't seem to have
been elucidated at this point.
I don't know if they're
saying it's because they
haven't dehydrated.
But like with any
illness, I think we--
I'll use the phrase
"biochemical individuality,"
or we're all individually
physiologically, biochemically,
genetically to some degree,
that we have ability
to fight these things off.
I think once one learns how
the immune system functions
and what it's capable
of doing, it gives one
a little bit more security,
knowing we're better equipped
to take care of
things than we've been
lead to believe to some degree.
REGINA: Absolutely, absolutely.
OK, so that brings
up another question;
what if the person
were being hydrated
through intravenous
assistance, could that
help them survive it?
HUTTON: Yes, that's one of the
things that they're-- well,
with respect to CDCs-- if
you go to their website,
there really is no
specific treatment.
They have the treatment section.
And all the treatment section
basically says is hydration.
Intravenous fluids, of
course, are the best
in this case because the
people are, in most cases,
not physically capable
of drinking or--
REGINA: Absolutely
with electrolytes, all
the electrolytes in glucose.
HUTTON: Well, that,
and I'm not sure
that someone, unless
you were-- I mean,
if you've got nausea
and vomiting going on,
you can't drink enough liquid
electrolytes and keep it down.
REGINA: But I mean
you could in the bag.
HUTTON: IV wouldn't
be a problem.
A person, obviously, doesn't
even have to be conscious.
REGINA: But 70% of
the people are dying,
and we're Sierra Leone
and other countries that
don't necessarily have
medical facilities that
can accommodate that many
people ill at one time, right?
HUTTON: That is
correct, and the problem
is getting the supplies to them,
getting enough fluids there.
I know in America right now
that it's been for probably six
to eight months, maybe
possibly going on 10 months,
that, I'll say,
practitioners that
do IV therapies in
their offices have not
been able to get IV fluids.
REGINA: I was going
to ask you about that.
This is wrong.
Something's wrong.
Since when can-- I
mean, you're talking
about people like yourself,
licensed medical professionals.
You can't get saline
solution even?
HUTTON: No, up until about,
and I'm going to say,
roughly August, September,
veterinarians could get fluids,
but now they can't.
And well, when you look
at it, the only people
use fluids in the office are
practitioners, alternative,
call them what you
will, but that do
IV therapies in their offices.
Conventional MDs do not
do them in their offices.
REGINA: No, that
happens in the hospital.
HUTTON: Exactly, that's the
only place that happens.
Hospitals can get
fluids, not a problem.
REGINA: So, for allopathic
medicine, no problem.
You can get your fluids.
But veterinarians and
naturopathic physicians
and others cannot?
HUTTON: Correct.
REGINA: But this
doesn't make sense.
Why would you have a shortage
of bags of sterilized water,
for example?
Or saline solution?
How is that possible
to have a shortage?
HUTTON: Well, I'd like to
put this in perspective
for people, if you don't mind.
When you mention
saline, saline-- 0.9%
salt water, the same
salinity as the blood.
I haven't checked, but it's
pretty close to the same
as the ocean water.
Earth's 7/8 ocean water.
Why can't we get saline?
That's a very good question.
And I don't have a
definitive, concrete answer.
REGINA: But as of
last August-- OK,
when did Ebola first break out?
I'm just thinking now.
I'm just thinking, trying
to connect some dots.
When did we-- it was a
few months ago, right?
HUTTON: Yes, it was--
maybe three, give or take.
REGINA: OK, so,
all right, so that
was around that time,
roughly around that time.
HUTTON: Fluids from before
that, they couldn't get them.
REGINA: Couldn't get the
fluids right about that time
or just before?
HUTTON: Right.
Now, if I could throw something
in here that, we'll say,
coincidental is that if you
look at Ebola being a virus,
you go back to the flu
epidemic, World War 1917, 1918.
I cannot quote this doctor's
name-- I wish I could.
I couldn't find the reference.
It's anecdotal, but it's
true, of a physician
on the East coast who had
about 25, 30 patients or so
that had the H-5, as they say,
H-5N1, bird flu, Spanish bird
flu, whatever, that were all--
I think back then the mortality
rate for that Spanish flu was,
what, 70% to 90% or something?
It was very high.
And he just gave intravenous
hydrogen peroxide
to all of these patients,
and they all lived.
Now, looking at that,
somebody would say, well,
that's-- I mean, I worked in the
conventional hospital setting
for many years.
REGINA: But you just talked
about vitamin C and the cycle
of what it does, so we've
had a little primer for this.
HUTTON: OK, good,
now, I'm not opposed
to using vitamin C. I
want to make that clear.
It's just that the
other therapies
we're going to mention,
and peroxide's a very--
REGINA: It's less
efficient, less direct.
HUTTON: Exactly,
it's less direct.
REGINA: So let's talk about just
going direct with the hydrogen
peroxide.
HUTTON: A standard
intravenous-- I
trained with Dr. Charlie
Farr, a number of years back,
that had put together
the peroxide protocols.
Dr. Farr was PhD,
biochemistry MD.
And we know that the white
blood cells use these peroxides.
And so the logic is that and
what Dr. Farr hypothesized
is that the body works on
a hydrogen peroxide pool.
Not that there's this
literal pool sitting there,
but the body pulls
the extra oxygen out
of the system that
makes the peroxides.
When using peroxide
directly, I like
to look at it as you're
just directly enhancing
what the body already
need and is using.
REGINA: So what kind of
percentage in a bag of fluids,
for example?
HUTTON: The standard
formulation that Dr. Farr used
and had promoted was 0.03%.
That would be
300ths of a percent.
What we buy in the store
is 3%, and, by the way,
what we get in the store
cannot be used because--
REGINA: No, it's not food grade.
HUTTON: No, it has excipients--
other things, fillers and such
in it.
Food grade can be used.
With anything going
in intravenously,
it needs to be, number
one, sterile of course,
and free of particulate matter.
So many practitioners
would filter it
with a 0.22 micron
filter, which is
a standard filter
in the industry,
to make sure it's sterile.
But by adding the peroxide in,
a classic, what Dr. Farr taught
was a 500 cc bag, either
saline or dextrose.
He preferred dextrose,
sugar water, D5W,
and the 0.3% solution in that.
REGINA: And that
basically wiped it out?
HUTTON: Mm-hmm.
REGINA: The Spanish flu?
HUTTON: The Spanish
flu-- I don't know.
That's the one
interesting thing is
that I've not been able to
find the hard copy to read
it myself.
I've talked to folks
that have seen it,
but I don't know that
the reference was
there of what concentration
the doctor used in that era,
in 1918, 1917.
But obviously, it worked.
REGINA: But the protocol
today, with the standard,
would be like, you say, 0.03%.
HUTTON: --0.03%.
The only, I wouldn't say
difficulty, but using peroxide,
you want to run it in
relatively slowly because it
is an oxidizing agent, and it
can damage the injection site.
If you run it in too rapidly,
it will damage the vein wall.
It'll come back
in a month's time,
but if you just run in
like, say, a 500 cc bag,
I would do it two hours maybe.
REGINA: Two hours, OK.
HUTTON: Maybe two, a
little more-- to me,
it's better to run it
a little bit slower
and protect the vein
from the standpoint
that if this is a
one-time situation,
and it's life threatening, and
you have to run it in rapidly,
that would be one thing.
REGINA: If you have the
luxury of a couple hours--
HUTTON: And then you can follow
up the next day or the day
after because the
vein, that site,
would still be usable and
accessible in a few days.
REGINA: Have you used
hydrogen peroxide therapy?
HUTTON: Yes, I was fortunate
to get to train with Dr. Farr
before he passed away.
I trained with him in 1993, I
think, went to his workshops,
and I've used peroxide
since that time.
REGINA: And what kind
of things have you
used it on and to what effect?
HUTTON: I've used it
on many conditions.
I didn't use it directly for
conditions, if you will-- say,
the way you would use, say, an
antibiotic for strep throat.
I used the peroxide
from the standpoint
from it's oxidative
characteristics
of adding oxygen
into the system,
a way of getting
oxygen in the system,
and enhancing immune function,
primarily is how I've done it.
REGINA: Which kind of
works across the board
then if you have any kind
of bugs floating around.
HUTTON: Yes, I guess
you'd say I've used it
more as a general enhancement,
working with biochemistry
as well as immune, both ways.
REGINA: OK, so back to
this timing in this.
To me, this phenomena
makes no sense
of not being able to
get bags of saline,
not being able to even
get sterilized water?
HUTTON: Correct.
REGINA: You can't
get sterilized water?
Now this is odd.
Nor veterinarians?
It almost makes--
I mean, now this
is my suspicious conspiratorial
part of my mind, which
is if you throw the vets
in too, the veterinarians
into the inability
to procure this,
then it doesn't look
like it's targeted
at alternative medicine.
HUTTON: Correct.
REGINA: Is that correct?
HUTTON: I agree with you.
It seems logical.
REGINA: And this cruel
because of all our animals
then suffer as a result,
too, as a side effect.
HUTTON: As a side effect.
Adding a little more
cynicism to this--
REGINA: You can.
I want to know what's going on.
This just doesn't make sense.
HUTTON: I agree.
Actually, I don't
look at it cynically.
I look at it just at
face value, and it's
like from a logic viewpoint
that if you had an outbreak, be
it the bird flu, anything
that was a pandemic epidemic,
in a case like the Ebola,
it's life-threatening,
and it's terrifying to most
people that you could simply--
and I'm going to use the
slang we use in the hospital--
hang a bag of fluids them.
You just hang fluids.
That's what everybody says.
Let's say you had a community
and you had 150 cases of people
that you suspect Ebola.
Well, rather than worrying
about doing some type of testing
to document it's Ebola--
REGINA: Just get
the bag on them.
HUTTON: Just hang a bag
of peroxide on them.
Whether it's the flu or not,
it's going to help them.
REGINA: And theoretically,
with that kind of virus,
it should wipe it out.
HUTTON: It would.
It should.
REGINA: It would wipe it out.
HUTTON: Yes, and the--
REGINA: And this is cheap.
HUTTON: Very cheap-- I couldn't
quite sit here and calculate,
but let's put it
this way, if you
were to buy the peroxide
from a compounding pharmacy,
it's going to be more
costly, which I'm not saying,
don't do that.
That's what I did
for many, many years.
You could also take either
the food grade peroxide
and filter it, as I
mentioned, and dilute it.
To make a 3% solution,
it's a one in 11 dilution.
That doesn't matter
what volume you use.
1, 11 is your dilution
that will give you 3%.
At one point, I had 55
gallons of food grade
for cleaning
purposes, and this was
when the scare of the flu,
a number of years back.
And we calculated out that
if I took that 55 gallons
and made it into
3%, we'd come out
with about enough 3% peroxide
to treat about 250,000 people.
And that volume of peroxide,
I think back, 55 gallons
cost about $1,000.
So it'd be dirt cheap.
REGINA: Dirt cheap.
HUTTON: Dirt cheap.
Now the one thing I
do want to add here,
we were talking-- I hope
it's not an improper place
to interject this--
about the potential
or the coincidence of the Army's
biological weapons station
in Sierra Leone.
Dr. Lynn Horowitz wrote a book,
"AIDS and Ebola-- Emerging
Viruses," and in
this, it's documented
that in the back of
this book are copies
of defense contracts
between Litton Corporation
and the Department of Defense,
with none other than Robert,
I guess it's, Robert
Gallo and Duesberg were
the principal investigators
for Litton Corporation.
And I've seen the copy,
I've had the book.
REGINA: And what does this mean?
HUTTON: Well, it's
basically saying
the Department of Defense
requested from Litton and Gallo
and Duesberg to
make a virus that
attacks the human immune
system, and they did it.
That was, I want to say, either
'67 or somewhere in there,
and it's real.
I mean, I've seen
the documents myself.
So what I'm just
trying to say is
that this would not be
the first time with Ebola
that it appears someone within
our military-industrial complex
has engaged in biological
weapons that have the potential
to be unleashed on the
population accidentally
or on purpose.
REGINA: And maybe,
I'm just saying maybe,
this differs from
AIDS in the sense--
and now this is just hearsay--
one older gentleman I knew,
who was a doctor, who also
worked with the intelligence
community, was stationed in
Stanleyville in the early days
and said it wasn't
necessarily engineered.
The AIDS wasn't
necessarily engineered,
but they knew what
was going on in
and made no attempt to stop it.
HUTTON: The information
I've come across,
if it's acceptable to
state, that yes, you
could say that HIV or the HIV,
Human Immunodeficiency Virus,
was made, was not
manufactured per se
because my understanding of
what I've come across and read,
the way it's made,
if you will-- we've
used in America green
monkey or kidney tissue
as standard culture media
for a number of years.
That's common knowledge.
Well, the particular, this
monkey has in its system,
Simian Immunodeficiency
Virus, as long
as the animal is kept
in its natural habitat
and is not stressed,
the virus does not
express itself and call untoward
effects within the primate.
You bring that animal out of
its habitat, i.e. stress it,
or let's just be blunt--
REGINA: Which they
did when they had them
in the research facilities.
HUTTON: Well, let's just look
at how they're captured--
either shoot them
with a dart gun,
or native peoples just trap
them, throw them in a cage--
REGINA: Very high stress.
HUTTON: --put them
on a boat, airplane,
fly them whatever
thousands of miles,
and you're in a
research laboratory.
And probably within,
what, 48 hours,
you go from being in
your natural home,
eating your natural vegetation
into a sterile metal
environment that you have--
REGINA: Terrifying environment.
HUTTON: Terrifying--
at that point,
the virus expresses itself.
All that needs to be done
is harvest the kidneys
at that point, make
the tissue culture.
Then you bring in
bovine leukemia virus,
bovine as we all
know, meaning cow.
The bovine leukemia
virus-- and then you
bring in visna sheep virus.
Visna sheep virus is
native to Iceland,
and it's what causes the slang
term "brain rot" in sheep.
REGINA: Why would you be
bringing these things in
to begin with, for what use?
HUTTON: When you combine--
this is the interesting tidbit.
When you combine the bovine
leukemia with the visna sheep
virus on the kidney tissue
culture, the bovine leukemia
and the visna sheep, if I'm
not mistaken, are retroviruses.
Meaning, they go in, take
the RNA transcriptase,
take the DNA within
the kidney tissue,
and restructure themselves,
replicate themselves.
And what you wind up
after growing this
on that tissue,
the culture media,
is you have a virus that's
a combination between all
these three.
REGINA: And so you
create your autoimmune--
HUTTON: Correct, that's what's
considered the HIV virus.
And I wish I could give
you, other than, I think,
Lynn Horowitz's book is
the single best reference.
REGINA: Yeah, I think so.
It's hard to find.
HUTTON: It is.
I have a copy.
It's in storage at
the moment, but I
haven't come across
anything else that
discusses the bovine
leukemia and visna viruses.
REGINA: So what might
know, if we progressed this
to the military installations
in Sierra Leone and Ebola,
what might they have--
I mean, does anyone
know what they might
have been working
with to perhaps even manufacture
what we are now calling Ebola?
HUTTON: The closest
thing I've been
able to come up with and
see is that some people
are saying that it appears it
was a manipulation of the Lassa
Fever virus because of the
hemorrhagic aspects of Lassa
Fever.
So unless I can find
other references,
I would have to
leave it at that,
and it does seem
to make some sense.
REGINA: OK, so we've
talked about the hydrogen
peroxide, vitamin C, but
there are other things that
can be done too, and I know
you use some very interesting--
and we've talked
about the inability
for alternative physicians
to be able to get
any saline solution, any
purified water, no means
of being able to distribute
to an ill population
any of these alternative,
highly effective,
and inexpensive therapies.
HUTTON: True.
REGINA: So we've gotten
through that part.
That pisses me off,
if I may say so.
HUTTON: I understand.
REGINA: But what about
some of the other tools
you use, such as UV?
HUTTON: OK, a little quick
background for the folks
if they aren't
familiar with it, there
was a therapy developed in
the early 20s in this country
called ultraviolet light
blood irradiation developed
by a doctor of science,
Emmet Kennard Knott,
E.K. Knott of Seattle.
The device was used for the
better part of 30 to 40 years
in this country.
They were 40 papers published
in the conventional medical
literature that document its
use over a 30, 40 year period,
covering everything that we
pretty much see in medicine,
I mean, bacterial,
viral infections.
And many people
will say, well, how
do you know this would
affect Ebola or any virus
for that matter?
Well, the illnesses
that we see now
are the same ones they
treated 40, 50, 70 years ago.
They were--
REGINA: Except for Ebola.
HUTTON: Except for Ebola.
One of the few things that--
polio has always been a very
terrifying thing for people.
I think we went to an
era in America that
was very, very frightening
for people, for families.
But, as example, in
1938 in Los Angeles,
at one of the facilities,
one of the hospitals there,
they had the ultraviolet
light devices.
It's called the Knott--
K-N-O-T-T-- Hemo-Irradiator,
the ultraviolet device.
And it's one of the a
few times in medicine--
I'll use the C word, "cure."
As a physician, you cannot
use the cure word in America.
You can cure.
You can't say you
can cure anything--
that they were curing
polio in LA in '38,
and it's documented in the
archives of physical therapy.
During that era of
this device, they
were treating what
we would consider
all the known viral infections--
polio, encephalitis,
viral pneumonia, viral
Hepatitis A, B, and C.
They didn't call it C back then.
It was non-A, non-B, or they
just called it viral hepatitis.
But both, all the
viral conditions--
REGINA: And they were curing,
reversing the symptoms.
HUTTON: Reversing the
symptoms, giving people--
returning them to normal.
I'll throw in, I'll have
to call it anecdotal,
but it's repetitively anecdotal,
I've done this on myself
with the basic flu.
I qualify the flu, not
so much as a physician
but as a-- we've
all had the flu.
People say, well how do
you know it was the flu?
I said, well, my hair hurt.
REGINA: Yeah, we all
know that feeling.
HUTTON: You know that feeling.
The old docs called
it bone-breaking.
That's what the herb Eupatorium
or the homeopathic Eupatorium--
bone-breaking pain
or bone-aching pain.
But the ultraviolet
was clearing up
all these different conditions,
and it's documented.
It's in the literature.
I mean, I've got copies
of all the papers.
I brought a booklet
with me today
that has all the papers in it.
So I'm just--
REGINA: And this is around
the same time Royal Raymond
Rife was also--
HUTTON: Yes, Dr. Rife's
a beautiful story.
It's one of my first conspiracy
of medicine story, if you will.
The man-- definitely the Nobel
Prize in science and medicine,
for that matter.
He refutes Pasteur
unequivocally and very clearly.
Well, Pasteur, I've been told
that he recanted on his death
bed, but it was too late.
REGINA: Well, and also for
anybody that's watching this,
I've done a couple interviews
with Steven Ross, which
is in either the CMN archives
or in the Gaiam library,
regarding Rife, the whole story.
So you can go there and
take a look at that.
But I'm just
saying, in this era,
this era was
pregnant with healing
power and potentials
that have since
been completely wiped out.
HUTTON: That's very true.
I happen to know the folks
around the ultraviolet device,
and when the inventor
passed away in '61,
the family just put
everything in storage
because the harassment
by powers within
the medical establishment
in America--
there were about 150 doctors in
its heyday using the equipment,
and it basically
would clear all-- well
say, a bacterial infection
in hospital setting,
we call it septicemia.
It's where the blood
actually has bacteria
growing within the blood.
The slang term in
the hospital, they're
growing bugs, as we call it.
This day in time,
you're on IV antibiotics
with septicemia, anywhere
from a minimum of a week
to four to six weeks.
In some cases,
they'll let you go
if you're not so ill you can't
function in daily activities.
You can do it at
home, if you will.
But if it's like septicemia,
severe blood poisoning, if you
will, from a bad infection,
you're in intensive care unit.
You're in ICU.
REGINA: OK, so let's say
they're using UV technology.
HUTTON: The standard--
I laugh and smile
when you say that
because we're looking,
let's say, four to
six weeks minimum.
The standard walk-out time of
the hospital with septicemia
after one ultraviolet
treatment is 96 hours,
assuming that the
wounds that you had that
brought you in did not preclude
you from leaving the hospital.
In other words,
you could walk out
on your own power, 96 hours.
REGINA: How does it work?
I mean, what are the protocols?
So what would a session be like?
HUTTON: A simple session,
from the literature,
you take out 1.5 CCs of blood
per pound of body weight.
It's exposed through the--
I'm fortunate to have
an original Knott machine.
I acquired it from a retired
surgeon, who's now deceased,
Dr. Breen Bland in
Memphis, Tennessee.
He used it for 30 years.
And why does it still work?
They were built to
last for many years,
but I have an engineer
friend who revamped it,
and it works as well.
It meets all the
standard technical specs.
But you take out 1.5 CCs of
blood per pound of body weight,
up to 300, and you run
it through the machine
and return it back
to the patient.
It's that simple.
Takes about 20 to
30 minutes average.
REGINA: So you take the blood
that has been irradiated--
HUTTON: --exposed.
Irradiated is the proper term.
REGINA: Yeah, but
not in a bad way.
It's not killing anything.
HUTTON: Not ionizing
radiation from--
REGINA: Right, exactly,
so it's killing the bugs,
and you put that
back in to then blend
with the rest of your
blood circulating.
How does it do that?
HUTTON: That's the big question.
The years I've used
the device, I've
been trying to find
ways to elucidate
exactly what it's doing.
There's a number of theories.
I mean, one theory is that
since it's ultraviolet light,
you're enhancing, internally,
the vitamin D aspect.
Well, they've come
to learn the vitamin
D plays a big role in microbial
destruction, if you will.
So that's one aspect.
Other than that, it's not
exactly known what it's doing.
What I can tell
you is that we do
know that it enhances the
red blood cells' ability
to carry oxygen by up to 300%.
Dr. Miley did some studies
back when, if you will.
And, as well, we don't know
what it's doing immunologically,
but we know there is a
massive immune response
in a positive way,
meaning that let's say
someone has the superior
blood poisoning, septicemia,
and in old days they
called it moribund.
Moribund is imminent death
within about 24 hours.
You could do one
treatment on this person,
and over the next 24 hours
watch their white blood cell
count, which is going to be
very high with blood poisoning,
or septicemia, and their
fever kind of come down
simultaneously to normal levels.
REGINA: So it's almost like
the blood that's been purified
is adding new information
in to the system,
and the information exchange
is creating the reaction
in the rest of the blood.
HUTTON: Yes, basically,
the first thought,
most, I'll just say,
scientists or physicians
I've crossed go, well, how
could that small amount of blood
affect the rest of the body?
Well, I really don't know.
Nobody really does know.
REGINA: It's kind
of like homeopathy.
HUTTON: Yes, yes, that's
a great little story, too.
That basically, when you put
this blood back in, now the one
aspect that has been only
discussed during our era,
a little bit back, during
Dr. Emmett Knott's era,
is that we're somehow,
if you will accept
the term, "photonically"--
passing light energy
that we probably don't
fully understand or know
the full ramifications and
works of into the other cells,
and something very
profound does happen.
REGINA: And in light
is information?
HUTTON: Yes, and as a little
bit aside anecdotally,
I've used this device
since 1997, I guess,
'97, '98 somewhere, and I've
treated many, many things.
I could just go
down the list, and I
mean osteomyelitis, bone
infection, gangrene.
It just stops everything
in its tracks.
REGINA: Well, it makes
me wonder about something
like Lyme disease.
HUTTON: Lyme's a little
bit different-- horse
of a different
color, if you will.
Lyme's being a spirochete,
very much akin to syphilis.
If it's OK to interject
a little story here--
REGINA: Please do.
HUTTON: There's a
case, I want to say--
I hope this is correct.
It's a Dr. Garcia in
Mexico that developed IPT,
Insulin Potentiation Therapy.
And basically that's
where you take insulin,
you drop someone's
blood sugar very low,
and anything you
interject into the system
intravenously is immediately
taken into the cell.
What makes this so profound, in
my opinion, is that he cleared,
in the '20s and '30s, he
cleared or cured 400 cases
of third-stage syphilis.
Now, for people, and this
not an insult, by any means.
People that don't have
a medical background,
to this day in time, you can
go to any of the top medical
centers in the United States or
the world and ask them, well,
how will you get rid of
third-stage syphilis,
and the person's going to say,
we can't-- maybe even second
stage, they can't.
Only in the first
stage is when it
can be treated by antibiotics.
And the reason I'm putting
this out information-wise
is that the spirochete
of Lyme's and syphilis
are pretty much identical.
I'm not saying they're the same
one, but being spirochetes,
they function the same way.
Now, the way Dr. Garcia
cleared the Lyme's was
by using arsenical compounds.
REGINA: Oh, arsenic.
HUTTON: Arsenic-like
compounds-- well, many people
get freaked out or scared.
I mean, it's arsenic.
Obviously, in very,
very minute doses,
that's where the IPT,
Insulin Potentiation Therapy,
was so profound is that you use
micro doses of things-- very
low doses, and it worked.
And I'll just say this, that
I have seen with my eyes
a number of cases using
a formulation that
has an arsenical compound.
That arsenical compound was
used in America for many years.
It's been recently
pulled by the FDA,
and it cleared these
cases consecutively.
REGINA: Of syphilis
or Lyme disease?
HUTTON: I'm sorry, Lyme's,
and it was verified.
Originally, there was a
dark field microscopy.
It was available
a number of years
ago-- Bowen Research Company and
then Central Florida Research.
They've gone out
of business now.
But I like their
testing the best.
But documented-- these
organisms were gone-- killed.
And it was my logic
in doing it that way
was because when I
learned about Dr. Garcia's
work and the arsenicals,
it made sense
that maybe this spirochetes
were sensitive to arsenic,
very much like the
guinea pigs were
very sensitive to the dioxin
in testing Agent Orange back
in the '60s.
REGINA: So now, kind
of coming back around,
so the UV, we've
talked about that.
That's what I
wanted to find out.
How many people are still
practicing this in the US
or in the world?
It seems so efficient.
HUTTON: It is.
That's the problem is that
in 1961, the company that
made this equipment
was closed and stopped
because the inventor
passed away.
And the family and
nobody wanted to deal
with the hassle of trying to
keep it in the medical system.
The FDA didn't try to stop
them back in those days,
and there's some technical
parameters on the original
device that make
it a little bit,
from an engineering
viewpoint, to build it--
it could be a little bit costly,
but it's still, in my opinion,
having been in hospital medicine
for many years, it would--
MRSAs-- the MRSA infection,
the Methicillin-Resistant
Staphylococcus Aureus,
the term MRSA stands for--
REGINA: Oh, god, yes--
wipe it right out?
HUTTON: It'll wipe it right out.
I won't say how many
treatments, but I've treated--
REGINA: How many hundreds
of thousands of people
are infected from
hospital care alone?
HUTTON: Many.
REGINA: OK, so back
to the question--
HUTTON: The only devices that
are out on the market now,
and I'll just be
blunt and direct--
I'm just going to say it
from a technical viewpoint.
The technical aspects
of these devices
that are out there on the market
won't do much of anything.
I'm going to make some
people angry, probably,
that build these
devices and use them.
But I've used them.
That's why it took me six years
to find the original Knott
machine.
I had to track Dr. Bland down.
REGINA: And you've seen the
difference between the devices?
HUTTON: Major--
if you read-- I've
told a number of
physicians, you go
read the literature like I did.
You read all the
papers on ultraviolet.
You read how the
machine was built,
and you can go to Otto Glasser's
"Medical Physics," 1951,
and you can read
how this device--
it's the way
medical devices were
brought into the public
arena, or I'm sorry,
the scientific arena.
That's how they were presented
to the scientific community was
through Otto Glasser's
book "Medical Physics,"
and it's the technical
description of the machine.
REGINA: So it can
be built again?
HUTTON: It could
be, yes, oh, yes.
REGINA: So there's
a task for someone
who is ingenious in
this particular area
to take this task
to hand and try
to build the proper
machine the way
it was originally built
to the original specs.
I mean, wow, there's an
opportunity for someone.
HUTTON: The interesting
aspect is that all it takes
is some money.
And this day in time,
even the amount of money
to build the prototypes,
and I say prototype--
I don't mean some rough,
shorn piece of junk
sitting on the table.
When I say prototype--
REGINA: You mean a
functioning model.
HUTTON: --totally functioning.
I mean a clinical model.
REGINA: What does it take?
Do you know what it
takes to build that?
HUTTON: We've calculated
it, and it's about $400,000.
And that's only-- it's because--
REGINA: And that's a prototype,
so if someone were to do this--
HUTTON: Well, that's
the original machine.
REGINA: Yeah, and then to
put them into production,
what could one be built for?
HUTTON: I would say you
probably could easily
build one for $15,000, $10,000
to $15,000, maybe even less.
REGINA: See now, boo,
that's another thing.
That just--
HUTTON: Well there's
a couple small aspects
engineering-wise or
mechanically that
need to be dealt with
that make it costly.
Like the old original lamp--
and this is what, in my opinion,
made the lamp or the device
so valuable with respect
to what it could do, is that
the lamp was a full spectrum.
It covered the entire
spectrum of ultraviolet.
The devices on the market
right now are more or less
single frequency-- the A, B, and
C frequencies of ultraviolet.
That's it.
They're just single frequencies.
This covered the full gamut
along with the harmonics
from about 160 nanometer
wavelength to 380 or 400.
REGINA: Full spectrum.
HUTTON: Full spectrum, yes.
REGINA: With the technical savvy
that exists in the world today,
there is no reason that
these can't be built.
But then if they did, what's
the FDAs position on them right
now?
HUTTON: Well, the
FDA would want you
to go through clinical trial,
which I find ridiculous.
I have a letter from
the FDA dated 1999,
I think, stating that the
Knott device has premium
status or grandfather status.
But they made the comment
that they would not
want to see it come
out into production
because the amount of
mercury that's in the lamp.
But that could be altered.
Because of our technology these
days, we could change that.
That, I'm hoping,
is their only reason
for not wanting to
see the device in use.
I contend the device
would do wonders
for our medical community.
There's one therapy
I do want to mention
before we get too far along.
REGINA: Yes, please do.
HUTTON: It's ozone therapy.
REGINA: Oh, yes,
ozone-- because we only
have a few minutes
left, and we want
to get to the everyday
things, please, I
almost forgot to ask
you about ozone, please.
HUTTON: The reason
I mention ozone
is that in 1991 the FDA
approved the use of ozone
for the maybe slang term "flash
sterilization" of hospital
instruments in the
operating room.
Now, I want to qualify that
for folks that don't understand
what I'm saying is that when
you're doing surgery, you know,
we're human beings.
We drop things.
Well, when an instrument
hits the floor,
the three-second
rule does not apply.
That instrument has
to be resterilized.
You can't just jerk it off the
floor and reuse it, of course.
Well, in the, quote
unquote, "old days,"
it was steam flash
sterilization,
and that still took
almost 30 minutes.
I mean, we'd throw them in the
sterilizer and get them out,
and you just grab
them out with tongs
and throw them into a cold
basin of either sterile water
or sterile saline
to cool it down.
But it's an
instrument the surgeon
was using when he dropped it.
So 15, 20, 30 minutes is not
exactly like coffee break time.
So the ozone, to
give you an example,
it is the second most
powerfully oxidizing substance
on the planet next to
fluorine, or fluoride,
which you cannot obviously
use in the human body.
Ozone does not
damage human tissue.
I mean, you could
make it do it, and it
will damage your red blood cell
in the wrong concentrations
otherwise.
What I'm getting at is that with
respect to the sterilization
or the killing of
an organism, you
could sterilize a surgical
instrument in 10 seconds maybe.
I mean whatever length
of time it takes you--
REGINA: So how do you
use it in the human body?
HUTTON: In the human
body you take out
a volume of blood, the
classic German protocol,
and I'm certified by
the Medical Society
for Ozone Therapy
out of Stuttgart.
You take 100 to
200 CCs of blood,
infuse the ozone into the blood,
and then reinfuse the blood
back into the person.
REGINA: Kind of like UV.
HUTTON: Kind of like the UV.
This is what I call a closed
system because you never
break the complete
integrity of the system,
whereas the ultraviolet, you
have to take the blood away.
But this you take it out, treat
it, and put it right back.
And knowing that it kills
all organisms instantly
outside the human
body, people go, well,
how do you know
it's going to do it
on the inside of the human body?
Ozone's been used for
over 100, 150 years.
In Germany, it's been used for
better part of 60 or 70 years
medically, and there's just
reams of documentation.
REGINA: And it's been used
for highly toxic things,
like spider bites,
brown recluse, where
instead of losing all of
that flesh down to the bone,
you can actually stop
it in its tracks.
HUTTON: Piece of cake.
REGINA: I know I've
read about that.
HUTTON: I've been doing
that for a long time.
That was one of the first uses
of injecting ozone in the skin
that I used was with brown
recluse spider bites.
REGINA: I know
someone who was bitten
and who you worked on actually,
now, that I remember it.
It stopped it in its tracks.
HUTTON: It does.
It does.
REGINA: A little mark, but
it didn't eat the flesh.
HUTTON: Considering
that I've known
of a case where a gentleman
in Phoenix, when I first moved
to Arizona, had lost his leg.
I don't that there
have been any deaths.
I imagine it could have.
REGINA: It can be
really bad, and there's
a rash of that going
around in Sedona right now.
For some reason,
the spiders are out.
OK, one more question--
oh, yeah, go ahead.
HUTTON: I think it's what you're
going to say, but go ahead
and please ask it.
REGINA: Well, what I wanted to
say is we're about out of time,
and so for people just wanting
to bump their immune systems
as best they can at home,
this is your specialty.
What are the ordinary
inexpensive things
we can do ourselves?
HUTTON: To me, the biggest
things that we can do,
number one, is keeping our
adrenal glands supported.
We know the adrenals
are for fight or flight.
They're also responsible
for the mobilization
of the immune system in
any illness-- any illness.
There are number of things.
I won't take our time to
try to go through everything
for supporting
adrenal, but there's
glandular therapies,
botanical therapies,
like Siberian ginseng to
support adrenal function.
But you want to support
the adrenals, number one.
Then we get into the
botanicals, the classics immune
enhancement-- astragalus,
echinacea, goldenseal.
Many of those things can be
used to enhance immune function.
Vitamin C orally, like we spoke
earlier, zinc, for example--
REGINA: That's one people
forget about often.
HUTTON: Zinc is crucial.
I apologize; I don't remember
the mechanisms off hand,
but it's utilized definitely
in immune function
and keeping the
immune system strong.
The other therapy that
I wanted to mention
that naturopathic physicians
or naturopathic medicine
in the lineage comes from
Father Kneipp out of Germany
and the water cures
is hydrotherapy,
and many people that would
hear, as a naturopath
you talk about hydrotherapy
or water therapy,
and they just laugh at us.
Well, I want to throw this
in; Dr. John Harvey Kellogg,
Kellogg's of Battle Creek.
Dr. Kellogg was an M.D.,
but he was an eclectic M.D.,
and he had the single
largest healing
sanitarium in the world,
and he used hydrotherapy
in Battle Creek, Michigan.
And he wrote, I call it, the
treatise on hydrotherapy.
It's about 1,200 pages of how to
use water in all of its forms.
But specifically the
hydrotherapy I'm referring to
is where you heat the body up
as hot as you can tolerate.
You go jump into a cold plunge
or a cold shower for only 30
seconds to a minute.
Come back to the hot
and cold, or the hot--
REGINA: It's amazing the
way it makes you feel, too.
HUTTON: It is.
Well, it has lots of
effects, but the one thing
I want to stress
here that's important
is that there's a
substance in our systems
that comes into play when we
become ill with a fever called
heat-shock protein.
And heat-shock protein, not
a lot is known about it.
There's a gentleman
on the East coast
who's one of the authorities.
I've spoken with
him several times
and bantered about with
these things is that there
are a number therapies
in the world--
the hyperthermia for cancer
therapy out of Germany,
the Keller bed, I think.
And people are going,
well, how does it work?
What does it do?
And in collaboration
with the gentleman
on the East coast
at the university
there, is that the
heat-shock protein
is induced, like in the
classic hydrotherapy we do.
You heat the body up.
You're trying to
simulate a fever.
It's like using a sauna.
We call it sauna.
My mentor was a
Finnish gentleman.
He said it's sah-oo-nah.
But you want to
keep the body up,
and you're mimicking a fever.
Well, that induces
heat-shock protein.
Everybody says, well, why do
you keep saying "heat-shock
protein?"
Well, it induces
the immune system.
It brings the
entire immune system
into play in any illness,
be it a sore throat
or be it the flu or whatever.
REGINA: Heat up in a hot bath,
take a quick cold shower,
heat in a hot bath,
quick cold shower.
Will a couple rounds do it?
HUTTON: Two, I prefer three,
just because we go back
to three little pigs and three's
the magic number kind of thing.
REGINA: And that's
simple enough.
All these things you've
spoken about, we can all do.
It's all cost effective.
HUTTON: Very cost effective.
I mean, hydrotheraphy--
just water.
REGINA: And then for
the exotic stuff,
well-- Doc, thank you so much.
HUTTON: Thank you for
having me, Regina.
REGINA: This has been
very, very elucidating
to me and many others.
And meanwhile, it
looks like we're
going to have to
go to a little work
to ferret out our
healing partners
with these technologies
as they appear
to have one hand tied behind
their backs at the moment.
If you need to
connect with Doc, you
can go to dochutton@gmail.com
for any kinds of questions
or dialogue you might
be interested in.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.